---
title: Flask - CalendarPlusPlus
layout: post
post-image: "https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/683692219345010761/928490984499716106/unknown.png"
description: Flask Web Application designed to be a Google/Apple Calendar alternative
tags:
- Python
- Flask
- MongoDB
- Calendar
- Web Development
- HTML
- Jinja2
- Bootstrap
---

Final project of Senior Project course taken in Fall 2021, chose to create a calendar application which would provide an alternative to Google/Apple calendars to give users with privacy concerns peace of mind. We chose to build the calendar completely from the ground up, using no existing calendar packages for display or event storage.

---

# Overview

This application is designed to provide an alternative to Google/Apple calendars. Application is written using Python (Flask), which utilizes Jinja2 to create HTML items using Python functions. Bootstrap was used for all styling, and MongoDB was used to store user and calendar information.

### Functions

Users are able to register accounts, create events which can have titles, start/end dates and times, descriptions, and locations, create daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly recurring events, add other users as friends, compare schedules with their friends on requested days to find free space for events, and import/export of calendar information using ics, ical, or csv formats, compatible with Google and Apple Calendars.

Calendar has daily, weekly, and monthly views.

Friends must be mutual before schedule comparison will function.

### Contribution

I was responsible for data modelling, database set up, database management, database back end code, password security, and general back end coding.

Functions of Note
* Schedule Comparison
* Import/Export
* All event management
* All user management

### Technologies Used
* Python
* MongoDB (pymongo)
* Flask